# SPRING COURSE PRACTICES

Hey there :wave:

## Practice 1 / Contacts application. Task:  using profiles for applications, beans injections

`path: src/main/java/com/contacts_practiceOne`

### How to launch and use it?

This is console application, and you don\`t need to do something special to launch this application.
All features are available out of the box. All of added contacts are saving to the file (`path: src/main/java/com/contacts_practiceOne/out`).

Also, here you can find a feature of reading the documents with contact info to upload it in the data storage when application was launched with "init" profile 
(you will find the detail info about it in the block "Model structure").

When you download it and open the project in your development environment, just run an Application class
(this is a point of entry). Then you will find the main features of this application:
1) Print all contacts
2) Add new contacts
3) Remove contacts
4) Stop this context menu or application

You can choose one of them from the context menu in the console by printing the exact number.

####

### Model structure

The model structure is a really simply:
```java
public class Contact {
    private String fullName;
    private String phoneNumber;
    private String email;
}
```

All the Contact entity (objects) are stored in List<Contact> in temporary storage (ContactsRepositoryImpl.java)

### Configuration structure
`file: application.properties`
Here you will find a main String values for application context,
also here was checked the features of usage the application.properties possibilities. Configuration structure:
* AppConfig - without any settings, to launch and found all beans from scope
* ErrorConfig - error messages to use in in the application
* IOConfig - paths for input/output features
* LauncherConfig - template messages for launcher
* RegexConfig - the rules for validation of the user\`s input

All of them are filled from the application.properties with help of `@Value` annotation.

And the main config for this

### Profiles description

This application supports two options:

1) default
2) init

You can change in the field: `spring.profiles.active=...`.

#### default
To launch it without prepared contacts data set from the file `mock_data_practice_1.8.csv`

#### init
To launch it with prepared data set (20 lines of contacts, was generated by `Mockaroo` site).


### Main beans for practice
To explore possibilities of profiles, was created two main beans for uploading features:
* DefaultUploadServiceImpl.java - launch without external data set uploading (here the method of initialization will give response "under construction")
* InitUploadServiceImpl.java - launch with data set uploading

Application use the exact one of them when you change the settings for `spring.profiles.active=...` (default/init)

